The South got much more of what it wanted at the Constitutional Convention, including protections for slavery and a proportional unicameral congress which elects the President. ( for TCT purposes we use a slightly noncanon EC for gameplay purposes). This also includes 5 year terms starting in 1789, which is why the elections are offset.

The early relationship with GB was much rockier, with an extended War of 1812 equivalent. However, the US took Oregon country peacefully by ultimatum because GB was busy with conflict elsewhere at the time.

The war with Mexico was closer to OTL, but the Southern-dominated assembly demanded more territory.

The Northern states from Wisconsin and Illinois eastwards seceded in the 1850s/60s following a more expansive Dred Scott decision which de facto legalized slaveholding across the country. The war lasted longer than the OTL Civil War and was a close run thing, but the South won out. 

Reconstruction of northern states was long, and full voting rights weren't restored until the 1880s for the last northern state. This created a political vacuum where the People's party of the West became the main alternative to the Democrats, who controlled the South. The PP slowly grew in strength and assimilated smaller parties like the Readjusters, Republicans, Progressives, Socialists, and Greenbacks.

The Whigs held on with overwhelming support in the readmitted northern states but struggled to gain any ground elsewhere. There were ~no (maybe one, haven't thought it out) Whig presidents between the Civil War and ~1900.

A war with Spain in the 1880s resulted in the direct annexation of most Spanish colonies. In the 1890s-early 1900s, under a PP government, slavery was gradually abolished, with African Americans deported en masse to Liberia and Santo Domingo (aka the Dominican Republic).

The US participated under a Dem president in a First World War analogy on the side of France and Russia against Britain and Germany, and took horrific losses which traumatized a generation. This led to a temporary collapse of the Democratic party and a brief period of Peoples Party dominance, during which the US stayed neutral in a Second World War which resulted in British, German, and Japanese victory.

Following the war, economic warfare with Germany and incursions by Japan on US territories in the Pacific (combined with a period of high inflation which undermined PP economic credibility) led to a resurgence of interventionist, (economically) liberal Whigs who were again able to contest on a national level. This period peaked with the Second Philippine War in the 60s and 70s, when the US fought Japan-backed independence rebels in a Vietnam analogue and eventually withdrew under a PP president.

List of presidents: 

William Jennings Bryan (P)
Woodrow Wilson (D)
Cordell Hull (P)
Margaret Chase Smith (W) 
Joe Lieberman (W), 2005-2009
